.TH lxqt-openssh-askpass "1" "April 2026" "LXQt\ 2.4.0" "LXQt\ Module"
.SH NAME
lxqt-openssh-askpass \- Password access over ssh module of \fBLXQt\fR: the faster and lighter Qt Desktop Environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lxqt-openssh-askpass
[\fIprompt\fR]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This module handles openssh security password access for \fBLXQt\fR. The openssh askpass module, will perform 
security tasks over scale access privileges.
.P
.P
The \fBLXQt modules\fR are desktop-independent tools and operate as daemons
for the local user on desktop specific operations.
.P
\fBLXQt\fR is an advanced, easy-to-use, and fast desktop environment based on
the Qt framework. It has been tailored for users who value simplicity, speed,
and an intuitive interface, with minimal resource requirements. It comprises
several optional desktop components:
.P
 * Session module (normally invoked by \fBstartlxqt\fR (X11) or by the
compositor)
 * Wayland session
 * Configuration center
 * Application launcher
 * Desktop
 * Panel with optional plugins
 * Polkit authorization agent
 * SSH password access (\fIthis\fR)
 * Global shortcuts
 * Power management
 * Localization
 * User and system time administration
 * Sudo/su module (privilege elevation)
.P
These components perform similar actions to those available in other desktop
environments, and their names are self-descriptive.  They are usually launched
automatically, when choosing a \fBLXQt\fR session in the Display Manager, except
Global shortcuts which is not launched under Wayland.
.SH BEHAVIOR
The module detected on shares privilege access, and maintains a security dialog
that asks for the user's key needed for access over another machine host.
.P
If exactly one non-option argument is provided, it is displayed as the prompt
text. Otherwise, a default prompt is used.
.P
If the environment variable \fBSSH_ASKPASS_PROMPT\fR is set to \fIconfirm\fR,
the module shows a yes-or-no prompt, defaulting to yes, and prints \fIyes\fR
when accepted. If it is set to \fInone\fR, the module shows the prompt with only
a close button. Otherwise, it shows the usual OK-or-cancel passphrase prompt,
defaulting to OK. This variable is typically set by \fBssh-add\fR(1).
.P
This module is very early stage, and not enabled by default, so you must added an env
by the \fBlxqt\-settings\fR application as \fISSH_ASKPASS=\fR 
with \fBlxqt\-openssh\-askpass\fR value, openssl and openssh-client packages must be required.
.SH AUTOSTART
The module is only showed on \fBLXQt\fR desktop, but you can create an autostart action
for your preferred desktop environment.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt-openssh-askpass/issues
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBLXQt\fR has been tailored for users who value simplicity, speed, and
an intuitive interface, also intended for less powerful machines. See also:
.\" any module must refers to session app, for more info on start it
.P
\fBlxqt-session.1\fR  LXQt for manage LXQt complete environment
.P
\fBlxqt-policykit-agent.1\fR  LXQt policykit agent module for privilege scalation
.P
\fBlxqt-config-session.1\fR  LXQt application for performing session autostart applications
.P
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was created by \fBPICCORO Lenz McKAY\fR \fI<mckaygerhard@gmail.com>\fR
for a project and VENENUX GNU/Linux but can be used by others.
